title: Four weeks in American Samoa, Tutuila Island
date: 2018-09-15

image[harbor_sunrise, as, View from Crazy Love's Home in Pago Pago Harbor for four weeks.]

After reading Dave’s previous post with his very raw notes from our passage - I
feel the need to emphasize how much fun we’ve been having since.  As mentioned
to us by another cruising  couple it is important to check in on the fun to
suck ratio.  Our time and most importantly the people we met in American Samoa
definitely balanced out this ratio.

It did take two weeks to recover.  Dave mentioned our rashes - his healed up
quite nicely and quickly, mine on the other hand landed me at the LBJ Medical
Center for antibiotics.  Apparently staph infections amongst cruisers in the
tropics are not that unusual.  A 10 day course of antibiotics and good as new ..
just a few scars as a reminder. AND $20 to see the DR and $40 for oral and
topical antibiotics -no insurance required.

Our first day we met Pam and Eric who host a cruisers pot luck every Sunday on
their beautiful catamaran Pied a Mer.   This was the most fantastic way to meet
the others in the anchorage and talk story.  Pam and Eric are working on
getting their mast and rig back up after a dismasting south of Pago Pago. They
are nearly ready and we hope they catch us in Tonga or Fiji before the end of
the season.

We met so many other great cruisers who I look forward to  running into again
over the next few months…Esther Frances, Apex Predator, Summer, Westy, Love,
Zensation, Kuan Yin, Bella Chao, Tiki, Counting Stars, Aloha caught up with us
too… just to name a few…

American Samoa is the stop all cruisers say they love to hate..the anchorage,
a natural well protected harbor is really quite beautiful - however the holding
is well known as terrible, the cannery across the way wafts fishy smells on the
right breeze, the power plant is brighter than the sun at certain angles even
in the middle of the night,  and come to find out some cruisers have absolutely
no anchoring etiquette (just ask Dave about Two Moons).  That is the bad.  The
good I believe far outweighs with awesome people, excellent provisioning
options, US mail, and as US citizens we’re welcome to stay as long as we like.
The island itself is beautiful and stunning and though not set up for tourism I
would encourage a visit.

image[western_coast, as, Western coast American Samoa.]

image[eastern_district_coast, as, Eastern District of American Samoa.]

Highlights of exploring the island include a Samoan feast at Tisa’s Barefoot,
First Friday at the market in Fagatogo, snorkeling at Sadie’s, pizza at
Paradise Pizza,  and a ferry trip out to Aunu’u.

image[tisas_umu_oven, as, Umu oven at Tisa's feast.]

image[pago_pago_sunset, as, Another beautiful sunset.]

image[pizza_and_beer, as, Paradise pizza and a cold beer.]

image[ferry_to_aunuu, as, Ferry to Aunu’u with the crews from Zensation Aloha Bella Chao and Tiki.]

image[bushwacking_in_aunuu, as, Bushwacking across Aunu’u.]

image[aunuu, as, Western coast of Aunu’u.]

image[tourguide_aunuu, as, Spot our four legged tour guide.  He followed us across the island and took a swim with us too.]


Just riding the bus around for $2 was a great tour.  And the buses… well pictures say it all.

image[american_samoa_bus, as, The busses in American Samoa are colorful loud and cheap.]

image[american_samoa_bus_2, as, They're all different too.]

We also met Kat - she was on the island working for FEMA and became such a big
part of our stay.  Adventures included a drive out to Fagamalo, hiking in the
National Park and of course $2 Beach (which was really $5), not to mention
sampling all the Samoan style chips and junk food.  Kat is awesome and we even
spent one night at Sadie’s hotel because of her awesomeness.  Did I mention
warm showers??

image[saturday_drive, as, One of the views from our Saturday drive with Kat.]

image[western_district, as,  We drove to the end of road Western District.]

image[shark_and_turtle, as, Shark and turtle beach where Auntie will call to the shark and turtle.]

image[patty_rosie_kat, as, Patty from Love with Rosie and Kat on the far right.]

image[natl_park, as, American Samoa National Park.]

image[sunday_hike_park, as, Sunday hike in the national park.]

I feel its necessary to mention the WiFi situation.  I was very much not
impressed, and must say miss Mexico cruising a bit.  When we first arrived it
was known that McDonald’s had a decent WiFi connection.  It was a very nice air
conditioned WiFi lounge and who can resist a McDonald’s breakfast?
Unfortunately they cut off their WiFi access soon after we arrived.  This very
much saved some of my figure :-)  However the other options were slow and
expensive.  We did end up getting a SIM card and the data was ok as long as you
were fine without downloading some new movies.  This in part could be why we
might be behind a bit in these blog entries.  As a side note Tonga is actually
worse….

Because we were staying in an American territory the US Postal Service was able
to accept our mail forwarding at general delivery without much trouble or cost.
We found out we did get the full deposit back from our apartment and the marina
slip - more beer $$$ for us.  Because it was so easy to receive this package we
thought an order from West Marine would be a breeze.  We needed a few parts to
make a better fix for charging our devices on the boat.  Well we thought wrong,
in their infinite wisdom West Marine decided to ship UPS (very different than
USPS) and it took quite some tracking down on our part to find out where in the
world this package would arrive.  A few phone calls and trips to the airport
later and we received our package just in time - the Friday of our check out.

image[pago_pago_post_office, as, This looks like the United States.  If someone could please inform West Marine to send packages USPS.]

Check out was not nearly as painful as checking in, it did cost a bit.  Costs
they failed to mention up front but what can you do and it really could have
been much worse.

We visited the harbor master, the cashier at the harbor, customs and
immigration.

Check  In / Check Out

 - $100 (customs)
 - $50 (rat and pest cert at arrival)
 - $58 (port)
 - $40 (immigration).

For four weeks not bad.  If it was a shorter stay this would seem a bit steep.

Now off to Tonga,  and we have a buddy boat as Kuan Yin is headed the same way
leaving the same day, 19 August 2018.  We're off to the Vava’u group!
