title: Drama In Mission Bay, Back from Mission Bay
date: 2013-05-27

We're back from a long weekend in Mission Bay.  Except for a little craziness -
that totally wasn't our fault - on the first morning at anchor, the trip was
great.

After breakfast on Sunday morning, I noticed a power boat leaving a big wake as
they motored around the anchorage. Usually a big wake means the boat is moving
fast, but this one was moving slowly.  I was puzzled until I noticed their
anchor line in the water.  When they came close, I yelled at the driver "Your
anchor line is in the water!"  He slowed the boat, but it was too late.  His
anchor had caught our anchor rode.  As a result, Crazy Love was being pulled
into this much larger power boat.  Ugh!

I ran to the bow and prepared to fend off.  I only had to give a little shove
to prevent the first collision.  Of course, when I pushed our bow off, our
stern went straight for the power boat so I ran aft and pushed off again.  At
this point the fellow driving the power boat was pulling his anchor in with the
electric windlass.  I worried that when he pulled his anchor up he would drag
our anchor with it, but that didn't happen.  Luckily, the power boat's anchor
came out of the water clean (or at least without anything belonging to me).
After getting the anchor up, the guy just drove away.  I can imagine only a
Grade A hangover would cause someone to motor around Mission Bay with the
anchor still deployed.

We're still planning to give up our slip at Harbor Island West and get underway
on Friday the 31st.  A lot of provisioning, organizing, and planning still needs to be
done.  Its going to be a busy week.

Some of our friends have asked how we cook on the baot.  Here's a photo of our
stove.  It burns denatured alcohol.  We do most of our cooking in the pressure
cooker.  In this photo, we've got onions, bell peppers, thai chilis and beans
cooking in a cajun seasoning mix.  In the vacuum flask above the stove, we're
cooking white rice.  It turned out to be a lovely, and spicy, meal.

image[stove, stove, Beans and rice for dinner. Yum!]
