title: Chacala to La Cruz
date: 2014-02-10

image[chacala_anchorage, chaca, The anchorage in Chacala looking North.]

_January 30th_

When we pulled up our anchors this morning in Chacala we discovered there was a
substantial amount of 'gunk' growing on the line.  The smell of the gunk
reminded me of the lockerroom in middle school.  Remember that smell?  Most of
the guys at my middle school didn't wash their gym shorts for months at a time
and their shoes never got cleaned.  The sweaty, unwashed clothing would fester
in a pile at the bottom of the locker and emit an oh-so-appetizing stench.  If
you've got that scent in your nose, now you know what our anchor rode smelled
like this morning.  I piled the stern anchor rode in the cockpit hoping the sun
would dry it out.

Crazy Love motored South in flat calm seas for three hours to Guayabitos for
a quick stop before heading back to Banderas Bay.

In the late afternoon, we rowed ashore to crash a dinner party.  Dinner was at
Latitude 21.  All-you-can-eat rib night was a hit - if you didn't have a
reservation (we didn't) there wasn't a table available.  Will talked the
restaurant into tacking the three of us onto the end of his friends'
reservation for 8.  Dinner gave us a chance to meet some lovely folks and learn
how to read the telltales on our genoa.

_January 31st_

First thing in the morning we had a visitor aboard Crazy Love.  One of the
Canadians from the crashed dinner party last night (his name is Will too) came
out in a kayak to trade his symmetrical spinnaker for our asymmetrical.  He
showed us how to rig, hoist, and douse the sail.  It turned out to be a great
learning experience.

That evening, Carolyn, Will (of S/V Thalassi), and I had dinner on the beach.
It was red snapper (the whole fish), rice, and salad.  I had never had the
whole-fish-with-eyes-staring-back-at-me experience.  The fish was great - cooked
perfectly, the meat fell off the bones and the fish didn't wink at me once.

image[jackfruit, chaca, A jackfruit cut in half in Chacala.]

After dinner we went to [what can only be described as] a retirement home Gone
Wild party.  Karaoke by the pool with a swim up bar and a busy dance floor made
for _interesting_ people watching.  Not counting the hotel staff, there were
only a handful of partiers less than twice my age.  I heard rumors that
several of the ladies dancing up a storm were pushing 90.  Good for them.

_February 1st_

Our trip down to Punta Mita was one of the best day sails we've ever had.  The
wind was light and variable so we made plenty of sail adjustments, but the boat
was always making at least three knots.  We dropped anchor just East of Punta
Mita right after sunset.  The 25nm (or so) trip took about eight hours.

The best part of this trip was the whale watching.  In the early afternoon, we
saw two whale tails slapping the water about a mile ahead of us.  As we got
closer, the two whale tails turned into four whale fins slapping the water.
One of the whales was bigger than the other so Rosie guessed it was mom and
baby. After the fin slapping stopped the jumping started.  Both whales jumped
clear out of the water at the same time. The closest jump was less than 200
yards away from us. We didn't bother with the camera but I'll describe it as
Better than Sea World.  

_February 2nd & 3rd_

image[punta_mita_sunset, chaca, Sunset over Punta Mita]

Two days at anchor. Very relaxing.  Lots and lots of Carcassonne on the iPad.

_February 4th_

A North breeze in the anchorage at 9am seemed to suggest we could sail the 8nm
into La Cruz de Huanacaxtle.  After one mile, and another whale sighting, the
wind quit and we floated.  Our oh-so-quiet Yanmar 1GM10 got us the rest of the
way into the beautiful Marina Riviera Nayarit at La Cruz.

image[la_cruz_marina, chaca, Crazy Love in the slip in Marina Riviera Nayarit in La Cruz.]

The cold shower - first in three weeks - after checking in with the marina was
not disappointing.  Time for some marina living!  We've heard good things about
La Cruz.  A first look suggests it has a lot to offer.  Plenty of restaurants
to try and live music every night of the week.
