title: Ensenada to Bahía Tortugas 
date: 2013-11-28

image[sunrise_pacific, turtle, Sunrise over the Pacific enroute to Turtle Bay.]


_Warning: This entry was compiled in collaboration... the point of view may
switch on you at any moment._

I would have put pants on if I knew we were going to have company...

From our slip in Ensenada, our GPS said Bahía Tortugas (Turtle Bay) was 262
miles.  That's about 70 miles farther than our longest previous trip.  That
trip, from Monterey to Santa Cruz Island, took 60 hours aboard Crazy Love.  The
trip to Turtle Bay took almost 6 full days.  It was slow going.

__Friday, November 22nd__

On the day we planned to leave Ensenada we had some trouble with our GPS.  I had
bought the Mexico charts on an SD card that plugs into the Garmin handheld unit.
When we turned on the GPS the morning of our departure, we noticed the details
were gone from the map.  The GPS didn't even have a label for Turtle Bay.  We
tried to plug the SD card into the laptop, but it wasn't readable. Boils down
to: we paid $110 for electronic charts, we neglected to back up those charts, we
lost the charts when the memory card died.  Ugh!

Fortunately, we were able to buy a downloadable version of the charts for
another $160.  Those charts were loaded into the main memory - no more external
memory cards - of the unit and we haven't had problems since.  I very much hope
we're able to depend on the unit for the rest of our trip.  If not, no biggie,
we have paper charts too.

We left a few hours later than planned, but we were still out of the marina by
noon.  We motored out of the marina, past two massive cruiseships, and beyond
the harbor breakwater.  After raising the sails, we cut the engine and wouldn't
turn it on again until our final approach to Turtle Bay.

When we got the sails up and the engine off, we realized we'd have to beat into
the wind and the waves until we rounded Isla Todos Santos.  That took us four
hours.  By the time we were ready to turn South, the wind had died so we made
little progress that evening.

image[rosie_cockpit, turtle, Rosie in the cockpit. Notice we're still in lots of clothes searching for the warmer weather.]


Late in the night the wind seemed to be picking up steadily, so much so that
Dave and I thought it best to put a reef in the main.  In the howling wind we
began to reef and trim the sails, and then it started to rain.  I don't mean a
little mist, it began to absolutely pour.  At the same time the wind stopped and
we no longer needed that reef. I went back in the cabin and looked up at Dave.
It was as though a bucket was dumped over his head.  Apparently some of that
water made it down is back and soaked his pants...perhaps this is why he only
had is longjohns on in the am.

__Saturday, November 23rd__

The wind was still light on Saturday morning, so I made pancakes for breakfast.
Since the stove aboard Crazy Love is immediately forward of my berth, I saw no
need to get dressed before breakfast. The pancakes (with real maple syrup!) were
yummy.  When I was half done with my tall stack of yummy, Carolyn said "Oh,
we've got company."

An orange RIB approached with seven or eight uniformed men aboard.  A slight
panic ensued until we realized the boat was labeled United States Coast Guard.
They came up along side - we continued sailing at about 2 knots - and said good
morning.  They asked us a bunch of questions and relayed the answers to the
mothership and then announced they were going to board our boat for a safety
inspection. To jump to the end of the story, we passed the inspection.

While the Coasties (I say that with much respect) on the RIB were communicating
with the mothership, I realized I was sitting in the cockpit wearing a t-shirt,
long underwear, a San Diego Padres scarf, and a navy blue beanie.  I can only
imagine how ridiculous I looked.  Before the boarding party arrived I jumped
into the cabin and put some pants on.

The boarding party was three big fellas. They all had life jackets and belts
loaded with gear like a police officer would wear.  Crazy Love is a _tiny_ boat.
It isn't built to accomodate 5 grown adults so it was a cramped meeting. To add
to the cramped-ness, we had a bunch of junk everywhere.  The pans, bowls and
utensils I dirtied preparing the pancakes were still laying around the cabin and
my half eaten pancakes were still on a plate in the cockpit.

One of the boarding party joined me in the cabin to do the inspection while
Carolyn sat outside with the other two completing the paperwork. I was able to
show them all the required gear and placards and Carolyn was able to show all
the required paperwork.

image[sketch, turtle, Picture of Crazy Love according to the US Coast Guard]

One of the odd things they did was to draw a picture of our boat - check out the
photo.  Carolyn and I think the guys on the mothership were bored and playing
games with the guys in the boarding party.  The gentlemen that boarded were
friendly and professional.  We talked about the good bars in Ensenada and even
about where to get good pizza in Ensenada.

image[coasties, turtle, The coast guard heading back. It is really good knowing they are out there.]

__Sunday, November 24th__

image[at_sea, turtle, Much of our journey were flat and calm seas.]

On Sunday, we finally broke through 200 miles to go.  We had really light winds,
and we didn't want to use up our diesel, so we drifted with the waves.  That
meant we did 35 miles on each of the first two days.  An average speed of about
1.5 knots. We're slow on Crazy Love, but not that slow.

image[visitor, turtle, We were going so slow I think this sea gull thought we were an island.]

__Monday & Tuesday, November 25th and 26th__

The following days we got into a very comfortable routine.  The winds began to
pick up each evening and we really started to get through the miles.  Our night
watches went smoothly, ensuring at least a cursory watch for large container
ships and cruiseships every 20 minutes.  We decided instead of leaving someone
on watch for 2 hours straight as we did previously, we would each check every 40
minutes. Surprisingly we feel quite rested after each night (perhaps its the
regular afternoon naps).   The evening sunsets followed by amazing nightly star
shows have not become routine.  I really wish I could share with you the
amazing, breathtaking views of the stars out at sea.  

image[sunset_turtle, turtle, One of the many beautiful sunsets.]

By Tuesday we had less than 115nm to go!  Tuesday evening and through the night,
the winds and waves really got us going and our buddy Pac Man (our newly named
Pacific Light Windpilot) ate up the miles.  It was one of those nights that
whoever had the high side for sleep was half sleeping and half holding on to the
bunk for dear life.  I seemed to have the short end of the stick this evening
and on one particular surf down a wave did indeed end up in a pile of sleeping
bag on the floor.  I mean really Dave if you needed me up you could have just
asked!  (We need a better lee cloth system to hold us in our berths...we're on
it!)

Did I mention the flying squid?  Yep you read right flying squid.  On these
windy evenings we would find little squid on deck in the morning.  Really how
did they get there?  Then one night we're having our evening glass of wine
watching the sun go down and the stars come up.  The wind increases and through
the dark I see something come from a wave over the side of the boat and land in
Dave's lap.  Actually it was two squid that landed next to him in the cockpit.

image[squid, turtle, Maybe they don't fly but it still is a mystery to me how they get on the boat.]


__Wednesday, November 27th__

Carolyn has been getting up at sunrise every morning because she's been going to
bed at 8pm.  I've been sleeping until maybe 8 or so while she makes sure we're
still on the right course to our destination.  

image[sunrise_turtle, turtle, Dawn patrol has its benefits.  Sunrise.]

This particular morning, I got up just a few minutes after her and decided to
throw the fishing line in the water while Carolyn was preparing breakfast.  I
put the line in the water - all 30 feet of it - and before I had a chance to tie
the bitter end of the handline to a cleat, I had a fish on the hook!  Uh oh,
we've got a fish on the hook, what do we do now?

About 25 feet behind the boat I could see a shiny silver fish on the hook.
Surprisingly, it wasn't pulling very hard on the line.  I think I said (maybe
yelled) "Holy crap, we already caught a fish" to Carolyn, but she didn't believe
me.  I told her to come up and see the fish darting about behind the boat. Then
she saw it.

A little background: I did some bass fishing and a little deep sea fishing in
San Diego as a teenager, but I've never caught an ocean going fish and I've
certainly never cleaned a fish. When preparing for our trip we had many details
to attend to so I put minimal thought into fishing.  I bought minimal supplies
for a handline and two cedar plug lures.  Our fishing kit is smaller than the
average laptop computer.  Carolyn took it one step further and bought a cutting
board and filet knife in case we ever caught something.  Seriously though, we
never thought we'd catch anything!

Back to the story...Now we've got a fish of unknown size and type on the hook. I
slowly start to pull in the handline, one foot at a time while Carolyn scurries
about the boat trying to put together the tools we need: fish billy club, the
filet knife and the new cutting (filet) board.  We don't have a gaff, so we're
going to bring the fish aboard by lifting it by hand from the water onto the
deck.  Once I get the fish next to the boat, Carolyn has assembled everything we
need.

With the fish immediately next to the boat, I can see its a tuna.  I'm thinking
yellowfin tuna.  Maybe one of our more fishing astute friends will see the photo
and tell us what type of tuna it actually is?  So I lift the fish straight out
of the water and fling it onto the deck seat directly opposite me.  Carolyn has
the fish billy ready and gives it a love tap.  Seriously, she barely hit the
darn thing.  Uh sweetie, we're trying to kill the big bad sea monster quickly,
not give it a massage.  I grabbed the bat from her and let the tuna have it.
Whack! Whack! Whack!  Yikes, I didn't expect that much blood.  Anyway, that is
how we landed and killed our first fish.

image[dave_fish, turtle, Dave's first catch.  Not bad!]

Rosie and I estimate the tuna was 18 inches long and weighed 15 or so pounds. It
was more fish than the two of us could eat in the three or so days we had before
it would spoil.  This is the first time we regretted not having refrigeration.

The following cleaning and filleting of this fish was an absolute hack job and a
total blood bath.  We apologize to all fish and sea monsters out there.  We did
learn quite a bit and have been eating tuna for breakfast lunch and dinner.

image[rosie_fishcleaning, turtle, More tuna than we can possibly eat.  We did our best making steaks and filets.]

For the curious we were using a handline composed of 10 yards of 200lb test
leader tied to a cedar plug with a big scary hook on it.

Late in the afternoon after a fabulous nap I heard some cursing above from the
cockpit.  I figured if it were serious Dave would be calling for me.  Just as I
thought that, I hear "Can I get a little help".   It seems the roller furling
jib would not roll.  It was really stuck.  Fortunately it was a time of very
light wind and we were able to roll and unwrap it manually to help assess what
could be hanging up the mechanism.  We tried quite a few things and Dave finally
felt he had to climb the mast.  Oh my!  I now love to hate the mast steps. These
most often are just a nuisance... getting halyards wrapped and caught up on. But
with our bowson's chair (a rock climbing harness) connected to a spare halyard,
Dave was able to climb to the top and unsnag the snagged jib halyard at the top
of the roller furling.  

image[dave_mast, turtle, Superhero Dave up the mast.]

He did this only to come back down and have it snag again.  Up he went again and
duct tape to the rescue.  It seems this has smoothed out the hang up
temporarily.  We will need to sooner than later replace the jib halyard and if
Dave has anything to do with anything we'll be replacing the roller furling all
together (understandably).

__Thanksgiving, November 28th__

image[sunset_turtle_town, turtle, Sunset over the small fishing town of Bahía Tortugas.]

We arrived in Bahia Tortugas!  We motored the last five miles into the bay and
anchored a few hundred yards from the town's rickety old pier.  We plan to go
into town tomorrow to let everyone know we've arrived safely and update the
blog.

image[turtle_bay, turtle, Sunset coloring the hills behind the bay.]

We'll hang out here for a few days, depending on weather, and head South to Mag
Bay. That'll be just North of the Tropic of Cancer.  I can't wait for the
tropics!

image[other_boats, turtle, Our neighbors in Bahía Tortugas.]

We have much to be thankful this day wishing all of you a Happy Thanksgiving!
