title: Departing for Our Last Bit of Gunkholing  11-13 March 2014
date: 2014-03-13

After the last of the visitors departed, it was time to get back to the boat.
We have started thinking about what we need to do before we jump the puddle in
April.  Before our last bit of
[gunkholing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gunkholing) around Mexico we felt we
could cross a few items off our list.   

Item 1:  The Life Raft

A few guys in La Cruz will check out your life rafts and refill any of the pull
release canisters if needed. Before our coastal cruise down here we bought an
old soft pack life raft really intended for small aircraft. It fits perfectly
under our companionway stairs. On the downside we figured out its circa 1950
with the canisters last filled in 1975. Hmmm...good thing we didn't need it. We
decided to pull the release and see what happened...and it actually filled the
raft. See we would have been fine. 

image[life_raft, gunkholing, I'm sure we both could have fit in here.   This is the old life raft prior to inflating.]

However we are usure if this would hold up way out in the middle of the
pacific.  We were fortunate to find a cruiser looking to unload a 6 person
ocean ready life raft with accessories (first aid kit, water, hand paddles,
etc).   The canister has just been refilled and its ready to go!  It's quite a
bit larger but we'll be able to strap it in front of our mast.

Item 2: Cockpit Cushions

Don't laugh!  Comfort of the crew is important, especially on a four week
crossing. We found a local business who does boat covers and commissioned them
to make a long cushion for each side of the cockpit. We'll pick these up when
we return to the marina around April 1.

image[rover, gunkholing, Sending off the Lilo.  They are also leaving La Cruz to begin their trip back home to Oregon.]


Items 3 and 4:  Communication Upgrades

These came with the friends and family visits from the states (ordered via
Amazon). We have added a hand held VHF and a gadget called the [Delorme
inReach](http://www.inreachdelorme.com/product-info/inreach-smartphone.php).
The handheld was added for easier communication from the cockpit as well as the
ability to take this in the life raft if something that drastic should occur.
We added the inReach which connects via satellite and gives us the ability to
share our location and communicate via short email and text messages to friends
and family. We set up an account and plan to test this over the next month
before we leave. This also has an SOS function and will back up our EPIRB.

With these off our list we provisioned for a few weeks and left the marina to
do a bit more exploring before we jump the puddle.  Destination Isla Isabela.


