title: Aloha Oahu, Passage to Fanning
date: 2018-08-02

image[diamond_head, fanning, Diamond Head & Waikiki on our way out of Ke'ehi Lagoon.]

It was June 18 and we were ready to leave already!  Thanks to all our dear
friends old and new for the multiple send offs and parting provisions. We will
miss Kailua Beach, wine tastings at
[Kalapawai](http://www.kalapawaimarket.com/), the best udon at
[Marukame](http://www.toridollusa.com/), karaoke nights at the Kailua Palace,
mai tais at the [Royal
Hawaiian](https://www.royal-hawaiian.com/dining/mai-tai-bar/), the HOPS crew,
[Nico’s](http://nicospier38.com/) loco moco (a must with fried rice if you can
get there early enough), happy hour at the [pub](http://kailuatownpub.com/),
Lanikai plays in the Park, poke at [Hibachi](http://thehibachihawaii.net/) and
much much more. Aloha Oahu!

image[first_night_sunset, fanning, Sunset on the first night underway.]

We head out in a light south easterly breeze with beautiful blue skies!  If it
would only stay this good. It’s been 4 years since our last cruising and we are
not in cruising shape. We’ve been working so hard on getting the boat ready
there was little time for sailing. We manage to get a little sunburned on this
first day- a bit excited and forgot to reapply the much needed sunscreen.

image[feet_up_underway, fanning, It wasn't all difficult - some easy sailing to be had.]

Second day in and we settle into a beam reach. The  waves crashing into the
hull and sometimes over into the cockpit.  They are stronger than a slap but
not quite a bashing.  I seriously wasn’t ready to get thrown around so much.
It’s much different than the wind and waves we had behind us on our crossing
from Mexico to Hawaii.  Despite the crew having difficulties adjusting, the
boat is moving fast. Very fast and straight at the island of Fanning for the
first 600 miles or so. All the work we did rebedding hardware was an utter
fail. We are wet inside and outside, but it is very warm as we head south
closer and closer to the equator.

image[jury_rig_bimini, fanning, Rosie jury rigged a bimini with clothespins and a lavalava]

image[dave_swimming, fanning, Dave got his wish - swimming in the middle of the ocean!]

At about 400 miles to go (day 7 of our journey) the wind essentially stops. Is
this the ITCZ - the doldrums?  Seems pretty far north but we do know it moves
and it seems to be moving with us. We have no way to know for sure. We run into
very light wind and confused waves.  Light enough the wind vane can’t really
steer us and we do a lot of self steering, including a little motoring and some
floating.  Dark sections of sky move across the horizon bringing rain and gusts
of wind. During the day we can steer around the majority of these mini storms.
At night the stargazing is otherworldly. With the light winds we arrange the
pillows with our heads on either side of the tiller and lay on each side of the
cockpit staring up into the sails and beyond to the sky.  The stereo works well
and we blast music into the night sky, with no one nearby except the dolphins
to complain. The Milky Way is quite prominent the later it gets. Our constant
companion the southern cross leads us onward in the right direction.  This
constellation is easy to spot early in the night sky and very easy to lose as
more and more stars fill in. Some nights the moon is so very bright it’s best
to wait for it to set.  After Two days of frustratingly low miles we were
rewarded with dolphins two nights in a row. They didn’t seem to mind our small
wake. Finally we get moving again Day 11 but only for a few hours.   We have a
problem with the wind pilot, we’ve fondly named PacMAn. (It’s a Pacific Light
wind pilot and it eats up the miles.)It loses a bolt but fortunately Dave has a
replacement.

image[dark_cloud, fanning, Dark clouds before sunset to the east on our way to Fanning.]

Day 12 and we are still moving very slowly. 156 miles to go and the night
brings the darkest sky we have ever experienced. No moon, no stars, cannot even
see a hand in front of you. This doesn’t bring any wind or waves and we are
experiencing a pretty strong eastern current. The next day we see a whale.  A
very large whale... best guess is a pilot whale - amazing!  Day 14 lots of rain
and finally toward the end of the day PAC Man is able to take over full time
through the night. Now the trades have picked up with only 55 miles left to go.
We head west by pole-ing out the jib. There is a bit of excitement when we hit
a storm, tangle the pole, sheet and halyard in the genoa as we try to get it
down -fortunately boat and crew come out unscathed. It’s Day 15 and we get
about 10 miles out from the island and heave to in order to delay our arrival
until morning. At 3 am it’s pretty uncomfortable and a small squall hits us so
we move on with jib alone.

Land Ho, 7 am Day 16. And a huge pod of dolphins greet us.

We know we should enter the lagoon of the atoll at slack tide.  The million
dollar question is: what time is it on Fanning Island, Kiribati? We come
prepared with the tide chart but if we don’t know the time it won’t do us much
good.  We know they are a day ahead and after much debate and review of the
chart and world clock on the iPhone we guess it’s HI time plus one day. Turns
out we were right. Noon is the time to enter so we sail back and forth outside
the entrance until we can pull the sail in and motor through the windy channel.
Crazy Love seems to be barely moving - it’s taking a lot of RPMs to power
through the wind in the pass.  The anchorage though windy and on a Lee shore
seems to be good holding for Bruce (our anchor) and we set down the hook with a
temporary sigh of relief.  We anchored 50 yards south of the sunken wreck
(marked on the charts) at 3° 51.42'N 159° 21.48'W

But now we must launch the dinghy and get through check-in.  It’s windy, very
windy but we manage to launch the dinghy and fly the quarantine flag.  It
doesn’t look like we’ll be able to row ashore in this wind. We’re hailed on the
VHF by the "Fanning Boarding Party" and it sounds like they are coming to board
us for check in.  That sounds great...except I failed to understand that we
were to pick them up at the wharf...oops. Looks like Dave is going for a dinghy
ride but how are we to transport all four officials?? And in this wind??  Dave
is amazing, hops in the dinghy gets to shore no worries; however, rowing back
one official at a time is just not going to happen. In the meantime the weather
picks up and I am happy to keep a good watch on our anchor.  On shore they
manage to hire a boat to take everyone out and tow our dinghy in. Four public
officials come aboard and when you add Dave and I the cockpit drains are under
the waterline so we're slowly sinking. We manage to get the paperwork filled
out.  They searched the boat best they could and we were all set.  Ultimately
we spent $20 for the hired boat - each way as the boarded us at checkout too
and a $20 anchorage fee. All the officials were friendly and professional.  The
horror stories we heard from other cruisers turn out to be unfounded.

image[fanning_water_color, fanning, Lagoon in Fanning]

image[fanning_wreck, fanning, The wreck we anchored next to.]

image[fanning_main_road, fanning, The main road in Fanning - almost no cars here.]

image[fanning_outrigger, fanning, An outrigger canoe off the main road]

image[fanning_copra, fanning, Fanning's major export is copra. This is part of the production process.]

image[fanning_wharf, fanning, Wharf view from the main road.]

image[fanning_anchor, fanning, Dave & Albert in front of Crazy Love.]

image[fanning_govt_offices, fanning, The government building with police and a jail.]

image[fanning_shore_2, fanning, Look at the color of that water!]

There are no supplies on Fanning. They catch rain water and a barge comes every
4 months with supplies for the islanders. And don’t think of taking a
coconut... you’ll find yourself in jail for a few weeks!!  We only went ashore
once as the windy conditions held steady except for one day. It’s a beautiful
island with friendly people. The majority live in traditional huts in family
compounds. They collect coconuts for copra and Sunday is a day of rest.  We
headed out just before their Independence Day.  It was time to head on to
American Samoa.  We have plenty of provisions and about  half our water supply
left.

image[fanning_shore_1, fanning, Look at the color of that water!  It isn't photoshopped. I promise.]

image[fanning_anchorage, fanning, Albert floating behind Crazy Love with a different view of the wharf.]

image[fanning_don_julio, fanning, Thank you Alan and Lynn.  We celebrated 4th of July with margaritas!]

image[fanning_checkout, fanning, The "Fanning Boarding Party" at checkout]
