title: Isla Islabela
date: 2014-04-01

image[las_monas, isabela, Las Monas rocks on the East side of Isla Isabela.]

image[blue_feet, isabela, Good view of the blue feet of the blue-footed boobies on Isla Isabela.]

We'd heard good things about the snorkeling and wildlife on Isla Isabela so
Rosie and I decided to take a three week trip up to there before preparing for
the passage to Hawaii.  The trip north to the island was about 80 miles with
two stops.  The first stop was the trusty anchorage at Punta Mita. We tacked
close hauled for 6 hours to cover the 8nm (as the crow flies) from La Cruz to
Punta Mita.  After one night there, we headed to our favorite stop Chacala for
St Patrick's Day weekend.  The crew of Lilo was there to greet us when we
arrived at 10 pm Friday night.  St. Patricks Day is a big deal in Mexico; there
were more people (maybe double) on the beach than at any other time we've been
there.  There were tour buses on the narrow dirt and cobblestone Main Street
and the camp ground was packed where previously there were only a handful of
cars.  

During our brief stay in Chacala we took a great hike to Las Cavas (The Caves).
Las Cavas is supposed to be great snorkeling, but we never found it.  Instead
we ended up at another lovely little spot where we could dip our toes in the
water.

image[chacala_hike, isabela, Saw this bridge hiking from Chacala to Las Cavas]

image[chacala_hike_end, isabela, This is where we ended up rather than Las Cavas.  It was a beautiful spot!]

Anyways...three lovely days in Chacala with multiple stops at Chac Mool
and we headed 40 miles overnight to Isla Isabela.  We had light west winds that
allowed us to sail slowly for 24 hours, (with a great 2330 wind shift in our
favor) tacking just a few times to get us there in the late morning.  We joined
Lilo in the east anchorage near Las Monas - we're not following them though it
might appear so.  We have since parted ways -  they're going north to Oregon,
we're going west.  

image[clear_water, isabela, This photo gives a pretty look at the obscenely clear water at Isla Isabela.]

We'd been told the East anchorage on Isla Isabela is an 'anchor eater' so we
tied to the anchor a trip line with a fender to float the line to the top.
Fortunately the water in the anchorage is so clear we could see all the way to
the bottom 25 feet below.  It turned out the trip line wasn't long enough -
causing the anchor to drag along the bottom rather than set in the sand - so I
jumped in the water and added another line to extend it.  Turns out I'm pretty
good at the underwater bowline.    While I was still in the water Rosie backed
down on the anchor again and this time it set.  

image[baby_boobies_1, isabela, Baby blue-footed boobies on the beach at Isla Isabela.]

image[boobie_nest, isabela, Blue-footed boobie nest with egg sans nesting bird.  Hope we didn't scare away the bird responsible for that egg.]

We stayed for 4 days.  We snorkeled every day.  We landed peeps on the beach to
hike around the island and check out the blue footed boobies and their
hatchlings.  The boobies nest right on the beach so after landing the dink and
pulling it 10 yards up the beach we saw a line of boobie nests, some still with eggs but
many with little birds snuggling close to the adult tending to the nest.  They
didn't mind that we walked close to take photos and pass by to get to the
hiking trail.  

image[iguana, isabela, Iguana sunning itself.]

image[baby_boobies_2, isabela, Baby boobie on the beach on the East side of Isla Isabela.]

There weren't many people on the island.  There is a fishing village on the
south end with maybe a dozen-20 people.  Then there's a bird research station
with 2 folks on the east side of the island near the anchorage.  The only people
we saw on our 2 hour hike were from a cruising boat in the south anchorage-
they told us how much they liked San Blas.  The hike was spectacular.  Iguanas,
frigate birds and blue footed boobies were everywhere.  This place definitely
lives up to its reputation as the Galapagos of Mexico.

image[frigate, isabela, Rosie caught this frigate bird flying overhead during our hike on Isla Isabela.]

In addition to the folks we met on the hike, our friends Jodie and Darren had
also recommended San Blas.  With two positive reviews that's where we headed
after Isla Isabela.  
