title: Crazy Love, Surfer Girl
date: 2013-09-04

We're sitting at anchor in Santa Cruz (in 80 degree weather and clear blue
skies) after a wild ride South from Half Moon Bay.  Our trip North from [Santa
Cruz to Half Moon Bay](2013-08-07_Santa_Cruz_to_Half_Moon_Bay.html) took 33
hours.  The trip South took less than 12.  The 45 mile trip South was an
exciting ride...

The day started innocently but would get much crazier.  We were anchored at
Pillar Point Harbor in Half Moon Bay. I stuck my head out of the cabin at
7:30am to check on things and felt a decent breeze blowing already.  Carolyn
and I grabbed a quick breakfast, organized the boat, and pulled up the anchor.
Outside the harbor we raised full sail in 10 kts of breeze and the boat started
to go along nicely, but the wind died as soon as we cleared Pillar Point.  We
made 2 miles toward Santa Cruz in the first 2 hours, but toward noon the wind
built to 10 kts.  That got us going a much quicker 4 kts.

image[wing_on_wing, to_sc, Running wing on wing from Half Moon Bay to Santa Cruz on September 3rd]

Since we were going dead down wind (directly away from the wind) in light air
and calm seas we decided to try wing on wing (see photo).  That gave us a great
chance to try out our new spinnaker pole.  We had the pole installed before we
left in May, but have not used it because we've been going upwind for all of
the trip thus far.

It took us a few hours to fine tune the trim of the pole and the sail, but once
we did, we were hauling!  Crazy Love was averaging 5.5 to 6.0 knots and when
the waves pushed us along we were touching 6.5 knots.

I should mention how we measure our speed: we have 2 handheld GPS units aboard.
Both were included with the boat when we bought it.  The one we use most is a
Garmin GPSmap 76Cx.  It has a color screen that displays our speed and course.
It also displays a map with our position.

image[garmin, to_sc, The Garmin GPSmap 76Cx we use for navigation and to see how fast we're going.]

So we're cruising along wing on wing with full sail up and the miles are easy.
We peel off 20 miles in just a few hours.  Otto, the autopilot, is doing the
driving so Carolyn or I just have to keep an eye out for traffic.  At about
2pm, we sailed into a thick fog that meant we had to keep an especially close
watch:  fishing boats seem to come out of nowhere!  Fortunately we saw no other
boats and the fog lifted a few hours later.

image[wing_on_wing_fog, to_sc, Running wing on wing in the fog from Half Moon Bay to Santa Cruz on September 3rd]

By 5pm we had gone 25 miles with about 20 to go.  The wind and the waves
started to build - mostly the waves though.  Still under full sail, with the jib
poled out to windward, Crazy Love was surfing down the backside of waves at 7
knots and even touching 8 and occasionally 9 knots.  I'm not sure I believe it,
but the GPS says our top speed was 10 knots!  That's really flying for a boat
as small as ours.

At 6pm we had to turn East toward Santa Cruz which meant we weren't going dead
down wind any more.  We took  the pole down and jibed the jib.  In hindsight, I
am glad we took down the pole when we did, but we should have put a reef in
the main at the same time.  The waves only got bigger and bigger after that.
Otto couldn't handle the steering load, so I took over for the last 12 miles.
Every third or fourth wave sent Crazy Love surfing, nearly out of control. The
boat would careen 60 degrees off course, then heel wildly to starboard before
righting herself and allowing me to bring her back to course.  By this time, we
had rolled up the jib half way but still had the full main up with a preventer
to keep the boom from slamming about.  Note to self: In October, bring all reef
lines to the cockpit so we don't have to go to the mast to reduce sail -
reefing at this point would have been a terrifying (and dangerous) experience.

To stay in control, we rolled up the jib completely.  We still had the full
main up, but that didn't seem to be a problem (except that it was).  The wind
wasn't blowing that hard so a full main didn't cause much heel since we were
broad reaching.  The issue was the waves - they were getting us very wet.
Fortunately we only had 12 miles to go and at 6 knots, those miles went by
quickly.  After a beautiful sunset, we tucked into the calm anchorage off the
beach in Santa Cruz At about 9pm.

We will dry off in Santa Cruz for a few days and then head for Avila beach when
the weather is right.  Avila, by our count, is about 125 miles away.  That will
be our longest journey by double.  The goal there is to give us a good idea
what the longer trips down the coast of Baja California will feel like.  After
Avila we round Point Conception destined for Santa Cruz Island for a week or so
of The Island Life.

