title: Tonga, Part 4: 30 September - 10 October 2018
date: 2019-02-09


The Blue Water Festival comes to the Vava'u group every year and is sponsored
by a few marinas in New Zealand.  Many boats head south and spend the cyclone
season there.  They had a full week planned of activities and some helpful
seminars.  Although we were not planning on heading to New Zealand, the
festival was a great distraction as we were waiting for a good weather window
to head on to Fiji.  Of course the bonus was eating, drinking and having fun
with our friends.

*Monday*

Opening night was Monday, October 1 - a local school's brass band began the
festivities with great music.  This was followed by a buffet dinner at Mangos.

We also took the time earlier in the day and did our pre arrival paperwork for
Fiji with Greg at Tropicana.


image[BrassBand, tonga_4, Opening night with a brass band performance by one of the local schools.  All boys.]

*Tuesday*

The following day we had breakfast with the Bay of Islands - they offered
weather information on the passage to New Zealand, suggested passage routes,
and had a few biosecurity officers present to give a briefing on what and what
you cannot bring into New Zealand.  Most importantly the new regulations on
boat bottom cleanings. It's quite strict.


*Wednesday*

The festival has a race every year and our friends on Zensation
were very serious about winning and getting their name on the plaque.  They
were looking for crew and Dave was happy to volunteer.  Not so serious about
racing the ladies from Zensation, Aloha, and  Love joined forces with the crew
on Starlet.  Starlet is a motor trawler that has been traveling around the
world.  Entering under its own category there was a very good chance of winning
and it was a fabulous way to view the race.  Zensation did in fact come in
first place!! The evening ended with a fun BBQ at Basque Tavern.

image[RosieStarlet, tonga_4, First year ever a motor trawler participated in the Blue Water Race.  Rosie with Monique Edith and Jennifer.]

image[StarletAward, tonga_4, Of course Starlet won in its class.]

*Thursday*

By far my favorite activity during the Blue Water Festival was visiting a local
school.  The school is set up to help those children who are a bit behind in
reading and math skills.  The children's family provided a huge feast pot luck
for us and the kids put on a great performance.  At the end we had fun dancing
and playing with the kids.

image[SchoolWelcome, tonga_4, The welcoming line as we arrived at the school.  All the children shook our hands and some overcame their shyness and introduced themselves.]

image[RosieandGirls, tonga_4, No surprise Rosie found a friend to dance with.]

image[Dancing, tonga_4, A bit of fun after the performances were finished. Dancing and more dancing.]

image[DaveSelfie, tonga_4, Who can resist a selfie with Dave?  Not these girls!]

*Friday*

The last day of the festival ended with the typical Friday evening race (these
occurred every Friday during cruising season, sponsored by Refuge).  Dave once
again joined the crew of Zensation.  The closing dinner was a delicious Tongan
feast followed by dancing and maybe a few tequila shots.

image[Zensation, tonga_4, Zensation returning from the Friday evening race.  They came in first of course.  View from Shamata.]

*Saturday - Sunday*

There was one last activity from the festival that the boat yard sponsored on
Saturday afternoon.  A great sausage sizzle with endless amounts of cold beer.

Now it was the weekend and time to get serious about our onward journey to
Fiji.  We made market trips and discussed routes with Helen and Jean (Shamata).
Had a lovely dinner on Love with Blackie and the Mermaid before getting serious
about setting out.

*Monday - October 8*

Rosie did final provisions.  David fixed a misbehaving sheet winch (thank you
Jean for the tools), filled the fuel tank from our single jerry jug, tensioned
the alternator belt, and organized.

David would like to brag about one thing:

We're still using the fuel we bought in Hawaii!  There's not a lot of awesome
things about being on a small boat, but low fuel costs is one of them.  A big
boat needs a fuel truck to fill up; Crazy Love needs Davey to walk down the
street with a 20 liter gas can.  We use the motor as little as possible and our
engine uses less than a liter per hour, so the fuel we carry (60 liters) lasts
a long time.  From June to November 2018, we used less than 30 liters.

We stopped at the little blue house boat for our last fish and chips with Bear
at Hideaway.

image[Hideaway, tonga_4, The best fish and chips we've had yet on this side of the equator.  Thanks to Barry and Char (they also do fantastic deli provisions - the breakfast sausage is to die for.)]

*Tuesday, October 9th*

Exit papers were obtained.  According to the officials we were leaving Tonga by
4 pm - otherwise we would have had to pay 100 TOP to receive the papers a day
early. We said our final goodbyes around town and left Nieafu by 4 pm as
promised.

However we just moved on to Anchorage 5. We stowed the dinghy and enjoyed our
last night in Tonga as the only boat in this tiny, quiet anchorage, with some
skinny dipping in the moonlight.

*Wednesday, 10 October*

Left early morning for Savu Savu.

**Money spent in Tongan TOP / Officials and Harbor (not including mooring
fees)**

* $24 quarantine
* $100 health
* $10 harbor fees (upon leaving)
* $120 to renew visas for an additional month
