title: Tonga, Part 2: 1 September - 13 September 2018
date: 2019-02-07

image[tongan_sunset, tonga_2, Another beautiful sunset in Tonga.]

Anchorages 5, 7, 16, and 15

Well rested, well provisioned and ready to explore some of the outer islands we
headed out to anchor.  Many of the charts available in town and in various
cruising guides has the numerous anchorages numbered and all the cruisers refer
to these numbers.

image[rosie_anchorage_5, tonga_2, Underway to anchorage 5 - Lotuma Bay]

image[rosie_rowing_anchorage_5, tonga_2, Rowing practice for Rosie in Lotuma Bay]

Anchorage 5, Lotuma Bay  - This anchorage still very close to town was an easy
first and very peaceful.  Kuan Yin joined us the first night and we had the
entire anchorage to ourselves on Tuesday night.  I practiced my rowing, Dave
cleaned the bottom, we enjoyed lovely swimming.

image[port_maurelle, tonga_2, Busy anchorage in Port Maurelle. Crazy Love is the second boat from the right.]

Anchorage 7, Port Maurelle - We arrived early Wednesday afternoon with just 3
other boats.   It cost yachts a one time anchorage fee of $15 TOP so we felt we
should at least stay 3 nights.  We felt great with all the space we had as its
a rather large area.  This was short lived and soon the kid boats all arrived
in force.  The parents like to travel together so the kids can entertain each
other.  The way the kids jump from boat to boat with ease and confidence is
rather heartwarming.    Along with the kids our friends on Avalanche arrived
and they came over to Crazy Love for sundowners (this turned into dinner as
often happens, good thing I made a pretty large pot of chili).  A fellow small
boat invited us over for drinks the second night and we met Mark and Flec on
Excel (they still had a good 5 feet more than us).  This couple is from New
Zealand and had been cruising around the islands since May and had lots of
great advice and suggestions for the remainder of our trip. We also took a
little walk around Kapa Island and found a lovely spot for cold beer at the
Reef Resort.   This resort is beautiful, 5 fales (individual huts -these quite
luxurious) as accommodation and with a boat ride required to the island it is
very private and would make for a lovely get away with close friends (or
perhaps not).  Dave and I hope to make it back to this lovely spot some day.

image[dave_hiking_to_reef_resort, tonga_2, In search of a cold beer.  We didn't really know where we were going.]

image[beer_at_reef_resort, tonga_2, Cold beer found! And an amazing view.]

Anchorage 16, Vaka’eitu -  We met up with our buddy Kuan Yin again at this
anchorage on Saturday afternoon. There is only one family that lives on this
island and invited us for a Tongan feast that night.  They do not have
electricity and take a boat into Nieafu for provisions when putting on the
feast. The children also require a boat ride over to another island for
schooling.  The family uses proceeds from the feast to cover fuel costs for the
children’s school. The amount of food and different flavors was impressive.
There was sweet and sour fish, cabbage and vegetables, chicken terriyaki, taro,
potatoe salad and more.   Some clouds and rain filled in and we stayed close to
the boat Sunday and Monday.

image[albert_on_shore_Vakaeitu, tonga_2, The high tide parking lot at the Tongan feast on Vaka'eitu]

image[school_kids_in_matamaka_1, tonga_2, The whole school at Matamaka.  They were gracious enough to stop school for this photo.]

image[school_kids_in_matamaka_2, tonga_2, Matamaka school kids in class. Rosie asked before taking this one.]

Anchorage 15, Nuapapu, Matamaka - On Tuesday we headed across the way to yet
another island, Nuapapu.  This anchorage had a few moorings and we grabbed one.
We were the only boat.  Wednesday we saw more rain and a bit of wind.  Being on
the mooring here it was a little rolly but not terrible.  We were hoping for a
break in the weather to row ashore when we were visited by a boat from the
island with the principal of the primary school and his kids.  The school
maintains the moorings and collects fees for support of the school.  We were
happy to make this donation and had taken a box of art supplies from HI to give
to schools along the way.  We asked if it would be ok to come ashore with these
donations the next morning.  The next day we rowed in and followed the path to
the Matamaka Primary School.  There are only 10 children who attend all ages
from first through eighth grade.  All boys but one girl.   The school has a
large common area with shelves of books and two classrooms.  One teacher in
addition to the principal.  They were very welcoming and offered us breakfast
of fish cooked in coconut milk with taro.  The older boys were studying for the
exams to get them into high school.  High school means moving into town with
auntie and uncle as there are no high schools in the outer islands.

September 13th we headed back into town to get ready for a birthday
celebration.  A mooring was available and we were set to spend some more time
in Nieafu.
